[Term Entry] Python Dates: .strptime() #5755 (#5900)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/dates/terms/strptime/strptime.md

---
Title: '.strptime()' 

> Description: 'Return a datetime corresponding to date_string, parsed according to format.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a datetime object that represents the parsed date and time from the given string, based on the specified format.'
```

Subjects:
- 'Python'
- 'Computer Science'
Tags:
- 'Date'
- 'Time'
- 'Strings'
CatalogContent:
- 'learn-python-3'
- 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.strptime()`** is a method included in the `datetime` module. It is used to parse a string representing a date and/or time and convert it into a `datetime` object using a specified format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.strptime()`** is a method included in the [`datetime`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/dates) module. It is used to parse a string representing a date and/or time and convert it into a `datetime` object using a specified format.
```

## Syntax

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

from datetime import datetime

datetime.strptime(date_string, format)
```

### Parameters:

> - `date_string` (str): The string representing the date and/or time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `date_string` (str): The string representing the date and/or time to be parsed..
```

> - `format` (str): The format that defines the structure of `date_string`. This uses the directives from the `datetime` module (e.g., `%Y` for a four-digit year, `%m` for a two-digit month).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `format` (str): A string that defines the structure of `date_string` using format codes from the `datetime` module (e.g., `%Y` for a four-digit year, `%m` for a two-digit month).
```

> ### Returns:
> 
> - A `datetime` object corresponding to the parsed date and time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It returns a `datetime` object, which represents the parsed date and time from the provided `date_string` according to the specified `format`.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please add an ## Example section above this, followed by the output showcasing as well
